README.md, before:

# Debugprobe

Firmware source for the Raspberry Pi Debug Probe SWD/UART accessory. Can also be run on a Raspberry Pi Pico.

[Raspberry Pi Debug Probe product page](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/debug-probe/)

[Raspberry Pi Pico product page](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-pico/)


# Documentation

Debug Probe documentation can be found in the [Pico Getting Started Guide](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/pico/getting-started-with-pico.pdf). See "Appendix A: Using the Debug Probe".

# Hacking

For the purpose of making changes or studying of the code, you may want to compile the code yourself.

First, clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/debugprobe
cd debugprobe
```
Initialize and update the submodules:
```
 git submodule update --init
```
Then create and switch to the build directory:
```
 mkdir build
 cd build
```
If your environment doesn't contain `PICO_SDK_PATH`, then either add it to your environment variables with `export PICO_SDK_PATH=/path/to/sdk` or add `PICO_SDK_PATH=/path/to/sdk` to the arguments to CMake below.

Run cmake and build the code:
```
 cmake ..
 make
```
Done! You should now have a `debugprobe.uf2` that you can upload to your Debug Probe via the UF2 bootloader.

If you want to create the version that runs on the Pico, then you need to invoke `cmake` in the sequence above with the `DEBUG_ON_PICO=ON` option:
```
cmake -DDEBUG_ON_PICO=ON ..
```

This will build with the configuration for the Pico and call the output program `debugprobe_on_pico.uf2`, as opposed to `debugprobe.uf2` for the accessory hardware.

Note that if you first ran through the whole sequence to compile for the Debug Probe, then you don't need to start back at the top. You can just go back to the `cmake` step and start from there.


# TODO
- AutoBaud selection, as PIO is a capable frequency counter
- Possibly include RTT support

Commit message:

Update to support building for Pico 2
- Update CMSIS to 5.7.0
- Update FreeRTOS to downstream commit aa52f214d

Note: for an existing repository clone, you must run
git submodule update --init
and delete and regenerate your build/ directory.

README.md, after:

# Debugprobe

Firmware source for the Raspberry Pi Debug Probe SWD/UART accessory. Can also be run on a Raspberry Pi Pico.

[Raspberry Pi Debug Probe product page](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/debug-probe/)

[Raspberry Pi Pico product page](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-pico/)


# Documentation

Debug Probe documentation can be found in the [Pico Getting Started Guide](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/pico/getting-started-with-pico.pdf). See "Appendix A: Using the Debug Probe".

# Hacking

For the purpose of making changes or studying of the code, you may want to compile the code yourself.

First, clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/debugprobe
cd debugprobe
```
Initialize and update the submodules:
```
 git submodule update --init
```
Then create and switch to the build directory:
```
 mkdir build
 cd build
```
If your environment doesn't contain `PICO_SDK_PATH`, then either add it to your environment variables with `export PICO_SDK_PATH=/path/to/sdk` or add `PICO_SDK_PATH=/path/to/sdk` to the arguments to CMake below.

Run cmake and build the code:
```
 cmake ..
 make
```
Done! You should now have a `debugprobe.uf2` that you can upload to your Debug Probe via the UF2 bootloader.

If you want to create the version that runs on the Pico, then you need to invoke `cmake` in the sequence above with the `DEBUG_ON_PICO=ON` option:
```
cmake -DDEBUG_ON_PICO=ON ..
```

This will build with the configuration for the Pico and call the output program `debugprobe_on_pico.uf2`, as opposed to `debugprobe.uf2` for the accessory hardware.

Note that if you first ran through the whole sequence to compile for the Debug Probe, then you don't need to start back at the top. You can just go back to the `cmake` step and start from there.

# Building for the Pico 2

If using an existing debugprobe clone:
- You must completely regenerate your build directory, or use a different one.
- You must also sync and update submodules as rp2350 needs a downstream FreeRTOS port for now.
- `PICO_SDK_PATH` must point to a version 2.0.0 or greater install.


```
git submodule sync
git submodule update --init
mkdir build-pico2
cd build-pico2
cmake -DDEBUG_ON_PICO=1 -DPICO_BOARD=pico2 -DPICO_PLATFORM=rp2350 ../
```

# TODO
- AutoBaud selection, as PIO is a capable frequency counter
- Possibly include RTT support
